dd-workflow-step-vault-metadata
===============================

Dataverse workflow step for setting DANS Data Vault metadata.


SYNOPSIS
--------

    dd-workflow-step-vault-metadata { server | check }
    

DESCRIPTION
-----------
This service implements a `PrePublishDataset` workflow step that sets DANS Data Vault metadata
on the dataset-version about to be published. 

### Vault metadata fields
The following Vault metadata fields are set by this service.

typeName                  |  value source  V1.0                    | value source Vn, n < 1.0
--------------------------|----------------------------------------|--------------------------
`dansDataversePid`        |  the dataset DOI                       | the dataset DOI 
`dansDataversePidVersion` |  the dataset version number            | the dataset version number
`dansBagId`               |  a urn:uuid generated by this service  | a urn:uuid generated by this service
`dansNbn`                 |  a urn:nbn generated by this service   | the urn:nbn minted for V1.0

ARGUMENTS
---------

    positional arguments:
    {server,check}         available commands
    
    named arguments:
    -h, --help             show this help message and exit
    -v, --version          show the application version and exit

INSTALLATION AND CONFIGURATION
------------------------------
Currently this project is built as an RPM package for RHEL7/CentOS7 and later. The RPM will install the binaries to
`/opt/dans.knaw.nl/dd-workflow-step-vault-metadata` and the configuration files to `/etc/opt/dans.knaw.nl/dd-workflow-step-vault-metadata`. 

To install the module on systems that do not support RPM, you can copy and unarchive the tarball to the target host.
You will have to take care of placing the files in the correct locations for your system yourself. For instructions
on building the tarball, see next section.

### Service configuration file
The configuration options are documented with comments int the `config.yml` configuration file.

### Dataverse configuration
To configure Dataverse to call this service, you must add it as an [http/authext](https://guides.dataverse.org/en/latest/developers/workflows.html#http-authext)
workflow step to the default `PrePublishDataset` workflow. The JSON to use in the step is included in `INSTALL_DIR/install/workflow-step.json`.

BUILDING FROM SOURCE
--------------------
Prerequisites:

* Java 8 or higher
* Maven 3.3.3 or higher
* RPM

Steps:
    
    git clone https://github.com/DANS-KNAW/dd-workflow-step-vault-metadata.git
    cd dd-workflow-step-vault-metadata 
    mvn clean install

If the `rpm` executable is found at `/usr/local/bin/rpm`, the build profile that includes the RPM 
packaging will be activated. If `rpm` is available, but at a different path, then activate it by using
Maven's `-P` switch: `mvn -Pprm install`.

Alternatively, to build the tarball execute:

    mvn clean install assembly:single
